[KB] Add KB for collecting CLI logs (output redirection etc) (#1259)
semgrep/semgrep-docs: docs/kb/semgrep-code/collect-cli-logs.md

---
tags:
  - Semgrep CLI
  - Logs
description: How to collect logs when running Semgrep on the command line.
---

# How to collect logs when running Semgrep in CLI

> When troubleshooting Semgrep scans on the command line (CLI), collecting and sharing logs can be extremely helpful. By default, Semgrep prints findings from a scan to `stdout`, and other messages, including scan details and progress, to `stderr`. For troubleshooting, it's most often useful to provide both.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When troubleshooting Semgrep scans on the command line interface (CLI), collecting and sharing logs can be extremely helpful. By default, Semgrep prints findings from a scan to `stdout`, and other messages, including scan details and progress, to `stderr`. For troubleshooting, it's most often useful to provide both.
```
Just to match up the acronyms

Author: Yeah, I thought this sounded weird, but I also feel like "scans on the command line interface" sounds weird. That said I think it's better than the option I chose. :)

> To collect all relevant logs for a scan, follow these instructions. All log output options apply to both `semgrep scan` and `semgrep ci`. All examples use `semgrep ci` for simplicity, and name the output file as `semgrep.log`.

Reviewer: Nice!

## Capturing full log output

To store the entire Semgrep log for a scan, including the findings:

```
semgrep ci &> semgrep.log
```

## Separating findings and other logs

Sometimes it's helpful to separate findings from other scan logs. Using the following commands separates the two and allows for independent review of findings and scan behavior.

> Capture only findings in a file, print other logs to the terminal:

Author: Doesn't sound far-fetched at all! Thanks for catching that.

```
semgrep ci > semgrep.log
```

> Capture findings and other logs independently, each within files:

Reviewer: Write findings to `findings.txt` and logs to `semgrep.log`:

```
semgrep ci -o findings.txt 2> semgrep.log
semgrep ci > findings.txt 2> semgrep.log
```

> Capture other logs in a file, print findings to the terminal:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Write logs to a file, print findings to the terminal:
```

```
semgrep ci 2> semgrep.log
```

### Formatting findings

Semgrep can output findings in a variety of formats. By default, the findings are formatted as readable text in the terminal, but they can also be output in other formats such as JSON or SARIF. For example:

```
semgrep ci --json -o findings.json 2> semgrep.log
```

outputs findings as JSON and saves the scan log to `semgrep.log`.

In addition to findings formats, there are options to add details of the data flow (`--dataflow-traces`) or explanations of rule matching (`--matching-explanations`). These are less frequently used in overall scan troubleshooting, but can be helpful for understanding findings.

## Logging verbosity options

> Semgrep has three commonly used log levels.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Semgrep has three logging levels.
```

Author: I struggle with simplifying things to this degree because it's not strictly correct. Since I also mention quiet mode (which is a kind of log level) I think I'm going to pass this one up.
